# Self Assessment - Kevin Chu
Looking back at my work for Locale, I spent most of my time contributing to both writing documentation and bug testing. These were areas I felt the most comfortable with in terms of the software development process as I love to write easy-to-follow documentation and fix small bugs that I might stumble upon during my use of the application. I do believe I learned more about software engineering as a whole: I gained hands-on experience with planning a software application from scratch, from the low-level architectural design to the high-level implementations, I became familiar with agile workflows, and I became much better at organizing/allocating work and collaborating with other software engineers. I believe that building upon these skills is important and will get me very far in my future career. With these experiences, I hope to have the opportunity to apply what I’ve learned during the development of Locale.

I also had my fair share of successes and obstacles throughout the development of Locale. What I found to be my greatest successes during this final semester was how I was able to learn more about the tech stack that we were using (React Native, Expo, NodeJS, Supabase) and how I was able to organize my workflow. Being able to use these various frameworks and have them work with each other is one step forward in my journey towards becoming a full-stack developer. As for work organization, I found success in using Notion to track the list of tasks/changes that we needed to do for the application. It was a way I devised to keep members on track and always on page about knowing what to do. On the other end, I only had few obstacles occur here and there during the development process, most likely either not knowing syntax or how a certain function works. However, my biggest obstacle was trying to implement augmented reality (AR) to Locale. Working with Google’s ARCore package, it was difficult to get the functionality to be accurate, thus it took up a lot of my time on the project just to not be able to get it working as intended. Eventually, I ended up archiving the feature into a different branch knowing that it would cost too much time and that I should focus my time onto making the project presentable for the Expo.
