# Self Assessment - Maggie Lyon
For my team’s project Locale, I worked primarily in frontend application development. I did not do a great deal of system design or ideating, but I took the concepts that my team members put together and brought them to life on screen. This involved front end feature development through React Native using Expo go to deliver a user facing android/IOS application. While doing this, I iterated on design and user experience, creating a seamless and well branded UI. Through this project, I knew I wanted to further my skills in both general application development and User Experience/User Interface development, so working on the front end of the application gave me the chance to do that over this course of many weeks of development and refinement. 

As the expo approaches and development wraps up, I can reflect on my successes throughout this term. I was able to check off dozens of development tasks from our backlog. I learned a new framework, multiple new libraries, and most of all, honed my design skills. I took mockups we made last semester and successfully converted them into real, bug free UI that interfaces directly with our database. I learned a great deal about agile development and project management through this process, as well as growing my skills in unexpected areas like cybersecurity when developing applications, and database management. While we were able to deliver a fully function application, I was still met with a few obstacles and challenges. The biggest of this was the augmented reality implementation in our application. Although we spent a great deal of time trying to upgrade our camera functionality to be able to scan and process a scene in real time, I unfortunately was not familiar enough with pre-existing libraries to do this to accomplish this goal in time. As such, I spent a lot of time on the brute force approach – trying something, failing, installing the first library I come across, failing, and iterating again. More time researching these technologies would have been very helpful to our success.
