# Self Assessment - Kate Schmidlin  
Reflecting on our progress on the Local project this semester, I spent the most time working on the front end adding in some social media features and cleaning up and unifying the stylization of the application. Before this year I was always assigned to backend for group projects and I was both nervous to enter the workforce with such little understanding of front end, and disappointed, since I never had a Co-op or assignment that really allowed me to explore the field and see if it would be something I could have been interested in career-wise. So it was a very personal challange for me, and I dove head into using this final-college-opportunity to learn front end. From this experience I learned that I take a lot of joy from the design aspects, thinking of how I can optomize the user experience and I made a lot of alterations to our application based on this line of thinking. For example, I often considered questions such as if a button is in an intuiative and reachable space for people of different sized hands to reach? Is each of the fonts, sizes, colors, and backgrounds clear, legable, and engagaing to percieve at first glance? What incentives can we add to ensure users continue to return to the app? And is adding those incentives plausible by release date / end of the semester? Through this I learned that I had more of a passion for design and client/user workflow than I did for front-end work itself, however I am still glad to gain that perspective and I feel like it has made me more aware of the effort required to add certain front-end elements versus others.  
Our group accomplished a lot of great stuff this year. I really believe in our application and we as a team and our friends enjoyed using the application in our free time. With that said, there is still a lot of work I would want to add down the line. I spent a lot of time on a scoreboard element to incentivize people to continuously use the app via the means of friendly competition, however this was an idea we didn't commit to until a month ago and I simply wasn't able to implement it in time. Next, Kevin and I spent a huge portion of last and this semester trying to implement a AR feature to see the more 3-D art (like statues) via AR on your phone. However every implementation was hugely buggy and not at all user intuitive. Someone at the expo suggested we reach out to DAAP about how they set up a similar tool for scanning art, and I am to do that before the end of the semester ideally. Maggie deserves special recognition for a lot of the heavy lifting of this project, it would not look half as good without her work.
