# Individual Capstone Assessment - Kevin Chu

Our team wanted to create something that we would use personally, so we ended up deciding on a social media platform. What we specifically decided on is a social media application that aims to be interactive and unique, focusing on GPS location and augmented reality. There weren’t many social media platforms that used GPS location to promote connectivity between its users in the real-world, so we thought that it would be a perfect project to work on as it somewhat resembles our experiences as engineering college students looking to meet people and make new friends. It is the culmination of what we learned throughout our academic experience as a computer science major. The project is structured in a way it showcases what we learned in software engineering and enables us to to deliver a solution to a problem in a unique, fun, and academic way. 

One of the reasons why I appreciate most of the college courses I have in the Computer Science curriculum was the practicality of the information that they were teaching. Our engineering classes, particularly ENED-1100, ENED-1120, and CS-3093C, had helped immensely when it came to applying the software engineering process. These courses talked about developing skills such as project management, thinking like an engineer, and proper team collaboration practices and behaviors. Coming into our senior design project, those exact same skills do have a use as we are actively planning, working on, and managing our work in the same manner as we would in the engineering class. Another course would be my data structures course, CS-2028, which went over the fundamental and essential data structures that all programmers should know about. That fundamental knowledge that I gained and was able to put into practice via lab assignments will help me manage data, objects, and functions/methods for our project.

I don’t really have any software engineering co-op experience under my belt; however, I do have experience in IT. I worked as an IT support specialist at a salon called Aura Nails & Spa where I dealt with maintaining a network of devices ensuring their availability and functionality. While IT isn’t exactly software engineering, hearing out feedback is. Part of my responsibilities are hearing out customer feedback and implementing them. This feedback is then used to streamline most of the processes that they might need to go through, like checking in or making appointments on the website. I expect to be able to apply this skill to our project with hopes of improving it for the users that do end up using our application. Hearing out feedback is important to any team/company that is pushing out products for the public to use. It will help improve the product in the long run.

What motivates me the most to work on this project is being able to create something that I feel is unique and fun while also working with a team of other software engineers. This is something that I would be proud to put on my resume and be able to talk about with other professionals within the industry like employers or co-workers. Another motivation is being able to learn about new technologies and tools to work on this project. Part of the software engineering process is being able to keep up with the new technological advancements. Things like AI are revolutionary and should be utilized in our workflow to improve our productivity while not doing all the work for you. In the case of this project, learning about augmented reality and JS frameworks like React will help both my team and I work on this project more efficiently and produce much cleaner and robust code.

Our approach to this project was to create something fun and interesting that we could end up using. In our case, it was a social media platform that is highly interactive on the basis of GPS location. Most other social media will promote connectivity through online and virtual means. Our project aims to promote connectivity through real-word interactivity, which is something that not many other social media are doing. We expect to have users be able to visit user-made posts through their GPS location and interact both with the post and the user who posted it if they are there, similar to visiting trainer gyms in Pokémon: Go. We will evaluate our contributions by observing the various parts that we each worked on. Our criteria for these observations are that these parts/functions must be functional, robust, and easily maintainable. Ultimately, because we are using an agile style of development, our project is never truly finished. There will always be new suggestions or bug fixes that will occur, which is why the only things we will prioritize are the main functionalities of the application. 